Rasmussen, Krista Stinne Greve. “Reading or Using a Digital Edition? Reader Roles in Scholarly Editions.” _Digital Scholarly Editing_, edited by Matthew James Driscoll and Elena Pierazzo, 1st ed., vol. 4, Open Book Publishers, 2016, pp. 119–34. _JSTOR_, [https://www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt1fzhh6v.11](https://www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt1fzhh6v.11).
[[Questions for Dr. Crane]]
___
### Notes and Quotes
- *"Such changes have obviously been influenced by the possibilities for storage, manipulation and distribution that new media have introduced. Yet it is possible that these changes have been driven less by the concrete use of new media than by assumptions about their potential." (120)* I really want to bring this point to my meeting with Dr. Crane to discuss how Perseus has worked with this transition and has learned what users actually need. [[Questions for Dr. Crane]]
- *"This has led to the proposed definition of three reader roles---reader, user and co-worker---that can be adopted by readers of scholarly editions." (120)*
- *"Gabler distinguishes between information sites, which are composed of serially arranged collections in books, and knowledge sites, which are 'relational' and express creatively participatory intelligence. Put another way, a knowledge site is 'a genuine research site'." (124)*
- *"Knowledge sites can thus better identify the relationship between the work's texts and other texts that relate to the work. In addition, they represent an unfinished research environment, facilitating readings that never end. The ideal of the knowledge site is marked by a high degree of optimism about progress." (125)* I definitely have this.
- *"While scholarly editions may serve a variety of purposes, they share a common goal of facilitating study of the works that they reproduce. The aim is thus not simply to produce an edition, which amounts to conducting a research project; the aim is just as much to produce an edition for a specific intended audience. For this reason, scholarly editions tend to define their audiences in terms of various user groups— an initial manoeuvre that has not been altered by the media shift. **Whereas one formerly spoke only of readers, the media shift has now introduced the reader as a user, but without drawing the requisite distinction between the two.**" (126)*
- Reader, User, Co-worker trinity: *"The reader is mainly interested in scholarly editions as reliable. academic versions of literary works. ... The user also seeks an understanding of the work, but in a more intertextual context, where stress is placed either on the relation between the work's numerous texts and versions, or on the relation between the work's own texts and other texts that explain or relate to the work. ... The co-worker seeks to go beyond the user and reader roles, and to contribute actively to the scholarly enterprise. ... They should rather be regarded as modalities." (127)*
- *"Gervais' three levels (manipulation, comprehension and interpretation) do not function in quite the same way as do my three reader roles. Instead, one might say that each reader role contains all three of Gervais' levels, which serve as the foundation for every successful reading of literature." (129)*
- *"At the same time, one may say that the hyperlink structure complicates our immersion in the texts, because we feel a psychological need to pursue the distractions offered by the links." (131)*
- *"New versions of the work may be issued and offered to the reader but these always will — or always should — stand side by side with previous versions as a series of standalone statements about the work." (131)*
- *"So, do we read digital scholarly editions, or use them? The answer is obvious: we do both. While it can be useful to identify an explicit target audience as a starting-point for work on a scholarly edition, one should also take into account how readers can interact with the edition in these different roles, for how a work is made accessible to an audience is ultimately a question of how the texts are related to each other." (132)*
___
### Further Reading
Vanhoutte, Edward. “Prose Fiction and Modern Manuscripts: Limitations and Possibilities of Text Encoding for Electronic Editions.” _Electronic Textual Editing_, edited by Lou Bernard et al., Modern Language Association of America, 2006, pp. 161–80.

Gabler, Hans Walter. _Text Genetics in Literary Modernism and Other Essays_. Open Book Publishers, 2018. _www.openbookpublishers.com_, [https://doi.org/10.11647/obp.0120](https://doi.org/10.11647/obp.0120).

Gervais, Bertrand. “Is There a Text on This Screen? Reading in an Era of Hypertextuality.” _A Companion to Digital Literary Studies_, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd, 2013, pp. 183–202. _Wiley Online Library_, [https://doi.org/10.1002/9781405177504.ch9](https://doi.org/10.1002/9781405177504.ch9).