I have lost track of what I need to do still and when, so I'm going to spend this session of writing thinking through the next steps and not worrying too much about getting words into the paper.

1. I need more sources to cite. To do this I'm going to list 5 DH sources I'd still like to cite, 5 literature sources I'd still like to cite, and 3 DH projects I want to talk about still.
    
2. I need to think about the sections I'm still working on, such as how the code looks and what I want to actually show of that, as well as how I'm actually engaging with the scholarship in both literary and DH fronts.
    

On point 2, I feel like I'm doing okay on the DH side of things, as I have definitely cited a few papers. Something I should work on once I have a very rough draft complete is getting all my Zotero citations into the paper so that I can see what I have actually discussed and what still needs to be mentioned.

For how the code should like, I want to choose something simple, like maybe my use of PYUCA to alphabetize glossaries using non-standard characters like ð and æ, or how the line-by-line view is generated by running a single code. It's important that this all be mentioned without going into too great of detail as this paper is not geared for computer people.

The XML is really important, demonstrating the use of TEI, the word-level tagging, and the way it works with the named-entities glossary. As far as engaging with the scholarship, that's going to depend heavily on what sources I decide to work with.

I have sources I've already cited and want to mention really quickly as I remember them:

- Malone, Widsith
    
- Chambers, Widsith,
    
- Sahle,  [[What is a Scholarly Digital Edition]]
    
- [[Reader Roles in Scholarly Editions]]
    
- TGN, The Getty Network
    

I didn't find Text Technologies as helpful as I'd hoped, but that's not a big deal. I also need to schedule calls with Dr. Crane and Dr. Goering and have just moved those to my kanban board.

Alright, let's tackle problem 1 above and get those sources chosen. I'm going to make a few extra selections in the DH section as I feel those have a high possibility of being only peripherally relevant to my writing and I want to have a few in my back pocket.

Let's start with:

Digital Humanities Sources:

- [[Text, Information, Knowledge]] - this is the paper that introduced me to TGN (which I mentioned above as citing), and reinforces the essential nature of citation schemes. I can tie this into I think the Pierazzo...? which mentions that we don't have strong academic rigor without citability, a constant struggle of digital editions
    
- [[What do you do with a million Books]] - I want to discuss the goal of a large corpus (this might do well in the concluding material to give the readers a vision for the future).
    
- [[Old Wine in New Bottles]], by Driscoll and Pierazzo
    
- [[The Digital Middle Ages]], by Birnbaum
    
- [[Digital Scholarly Editing]]
    
- [[What is Digital Humanities and What's it Doing in English Departments]]
    
- [[Beyond Translation]]: Engaging with foreign languages in a digital library, Crane et. al
    

This is only vaguely connected but I'd really like to pull in the quote from [[niles_oe-heroic-poems-book]] to talk about why Widsið matters at all. This will go in the very beginning when I talk about what Widsið is and why we study these poems.

I had kind of thought I was done with the literature side of things but as I review my Zotero folder, I see a lot here that I'd still like to work through as best I can.

Literary side:

- [[The Old English Catalogue Poems]] by Nicholas Howe
    
- [[Mathelian in Old English Poetry]] in _Words and Work_
    
- The Hero in Christian Reception
    
- How Anglo-Saxon Personal Names Work, Kitson
    
- The Franks Casket and the date of _Widsith,_ Malone, 1968
    
- Widsith and the Critic, Malone
    
- Widsith and the Scop, French
    

Okay so I got a little carried away, and honestly I could go on and on. It turns out there's just so much reading still to do. I think I want to do _some_ reading and try and get the paper done, so that then I can focus on reading with the goal of adding to the paper. It will be easy to incorporate ideas after there's a rough draft to work within anyways. So maybe tonight I'll put some numbers in to get the paper further down the line and then I'll commit to some serious reading. There is just still so much more to know.

read [[The Old English Catalogue Poems]]
