Goals for thesis: I really need to think about this. What should the actual paper contain? What information is important? How will this contribute to the field, but I think more importantly, how will this support the people just getting into the field? We need a few sections.

**Academic:** There needs to be a review of academic work on Widsith _and_ on Digital Text, especially as pertains to Old English. This will include Niles, Frank, Neidorf, Pascual, and Weiskott, as well as Crane, Tauber, Drout, and others. I also need to focus on my role as data presenter rather than data interpreter. The goal of digital texts is to make the works more accessible to scholars who will generate papers and research rather than to do the analysis myself. There does not need to be any new major statement about Widsith here, just better access to existing information.

**Process:** The discussion of my process, pitfalls and lessons learned, is going to be critical as the main chunk of the paper. This is where I will most need to incorporate the digital text papers and knowledge, discussing how this fits in with Scaife, what research and tooling exists already, and how I did and didn't reinvent the wheel. LOTS of research needed here. This may be the most important focus of my work this coming semester. Reading in the digital humanities side needs to take priority over all the Old English-specific texts I have been focusing on.

**Future:** This is the big "So What?" of the paper and the raison d'être. Widsith is a starting point. It's a foot-in-the-door of more centralized, accessible Old English work. The goal is to make not only this poem available to scholars with lots of extra information and resources, but to give scholars the tools to add more texts. It can't be all me doing all of the Old English Poetic Corpus. I don't have enough life for all of that. It needs to be a group effort, with scholars the world over contributing as they can, and providing a centralized location for all that work.

Work left to do on the actual text is some display issues and most critically the Named Entities index. There is simply so much information there and if my work is thorough and excellent, people will see the value immediately.